README.md, before:

# multibranch-pipeline-demo
Jenkins Multibranch Pipeline Example Repo

https://devopscube.com/jenkins-multibranch-pipeline-tutorial/

## Create repos in gitea
1. Fork the pipeline and application repos to github
2. Mirror them into gitea
3. Use settings to convert to regular repos (i.e. break the mirror)


## Setup Gitea plugin
1. Install plugin for gitea SCM
2. In Jenkings server set create server definition (manage system config)
    ```
    name = gitea
    URL = http://gitea-http.gitea.svc.mk-devops.local:3000
    alias = http://git.mk-devops.local
    ```

## Create multibranch pipeline in Jenkins
1. New folder = Petstore
2. Create new item --> multibranch pipeline and copy the jenkins file source from here
3. Add the gitea repo as source and create a credential
4. Set option for strategy = 'only branches that are also files as PRs'

## Update the pipeline
1. Checkout http://git.mk-devops.local/dmccarty/multibranch-pipeline.git
2. Modify pipeline file to include kubernetes container
    ```yaml
    pipeline {

    agent {
        kubernetes {
        yaml '''
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        spec:
            containers:
            - name: alpine
            image: alpine:3.14
            command:
            - cat
            tty: true
            serviceAccount: jenkins-builder
        '''
        }
    }
    ```
3. Update the URL for teh petstore application to pull from internal gitea service
   ```yaml
    stage('Code Checkout') {
      steps {
        checkout([
            $class: 'GitSCM',
            branches: [[name: '*/main']],
            userRemoteConfigs: [[url: 'http://gitea-http.gitea.svc.mk-devops.local:3000/dmccarty/spring-petclinic.git']]
        ])
      }
    }
   ```
4. Create pull request from branch 'feature' --> 'develop'
5. In jenkins click 'scan now' on the pipeline to check for pull requests.
    This should create a run for the 'feature' branch pull request.
6. In gitea create a 'squash' merge commit
7. Repeat to merge the 'develop' branch to 'master'

## Create webhook in gitea
In gitea for the project craete a webhook
   1. Webhook type = gitea
   2. Target url = http://jenkins-service.jenkins.svc.mk-devops.local:8080/gitea-webhook/post
   3. All events
Open the webhook and click the 'Test Delivery' button and make sure you get a 200 response.

Now you can run similar test as before and the build will run without needing to scan the project.
e.g. checkout the 'feature' branch and add step to print the webhook parameters.

Commit message:

Update readme with push mirror details

README.md, after:

# multibranch-pipeline-demo
Jenkins Multibranch Pipeline Example Repo

https://devopscube.com/jenkins-multibranch-pipeline-tutorial/

## Create repos in gitea
1. Fork the pipeline and application repos to github
2. Mirror them into gitea
3. Use settings to convert to regular repos (i.e. break the mirror)
4. Create a push mirror back to github withe suer / token credentials (to make gitea the master).


## Setup Gitea plugin
1. Install plugin for gitea SCM
2. In Jenkings server set create server definition (manage system config)
    ```
    name = gitea
    URL = http://gitea-http.gitea.svc.mk-devops.local:3000
    alias = http://git.mk-devops.local
    ```

## Create multibranch pipeline in Jenkins
1. New folder = Petstore
2. Create new item --> multibranch pipeline and copy the jenkins file source from here
3. Add the gitea repo as source and create a credential
4. Set option for strategy = 'only branches that are also files as PRs'

## Update the pipeline
1. Checkout http://git.mk-devops.local/dmccarty/multibranch-pipeline.git
2. Modify pipeline file to include kubernetes container
    ```yaml
    pipeline {

    agent {
        kubernetes {
        yaml '''
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        spec:
            containers:
            - name: alpine
            image: alpine:3.14
            command:
            - cat
            tty: true
            serviceAccount: jenkins-builder
        '''
        }
    }
    ```
3. Update the URL for teh petstore application to pull from internal gitea service
   ```yaml
    stage('Code Checkout') {
      steps {
        checkout([
            $class: 'GitSCM',
            branches: [[name: '*/main']],
            userRemoteConfigs: [[url: 'http://gitea-http.gitea.svc.mk-devops.local:3000/dmccarty/spring-petclinic.git']]
        ])
      }
    }
   ```
4. Create pull request from branch 'feature' --> 'develop'
5. In jenkins click 'scan now' on the pipeline to check for pull requests.
    This should create a run for the 'feature' branch pull request.
6. In gitea create a 'squash' merge commit
7. Repeat to merge the 'develop' branch to 'master'

## Create webhook in gitea
In gitea for the project craete a webhook
   1. Webhook type = gitea
   2. Target url = http://jenkins-service.jenkins.svc.mk-devops.local:8080/gitea-webhook/post
   3. All events
Open the webhook and click the 'Test Delivery' button and make sure you get a 200 response.

Now you can run similar test as before and the build will run without needing to scan the project.
e.g. checkout the 'feature' branch and add step to print the webhook parameters.
